scenarios/continuous-delivery/05-create-pipeline.md, before:

Like mentioned, [OpenShift Pipelines](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.6/architecture/core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.html#pipeline-build) enable creating deployment pipelines using the widely popular **Jenkinsfile** format.

Create a deployment pipeline by running the following command within 
the `inventory-widlfly-swarm` folder:

```
oc new-app . \
    --name=inventory-pipeline \
    --strategy=pipeline
```{{execute}}

The above command creates a new build config of type pipeline which is automatically 
configured to fetch the **Jenkinsfile** from the Git repository of the current folder 
(**inventory-wildfly-swarm** Git repository) and execute it on Jenkins. As soon as the 
pipeline is created, OpenShift auto-provisions a Jenkins server in your project, using 
the certified Jenkins image that is available in OpenShift image registry.

Click on *Dashboard* to go to the OpenShift Web Console. In the **coolstore** project, 
click on **Builds &rarr; Pipelines** from the left sidebar 

![OpenShift Pipeline](https://katacoda.com/openshift-roadshow/assets/cd-pipeline-inprogress.png)

Pipeline syntax allows creating complex deployment scenarios with the possibility of defining 
checkpoint for manual interaction and approval process using 
[the large set of steps and plugins that Jenkins provide](https://jenkins.io/doc/pipeline/steps/) in 
order to adapt the pipeline to the process used in your team. You can see a few examples of 
advanced pipelines in the 
[OpenShift GitHub Repository](https://github.com/openshift/origin/tree/master/examples/jenkins/pipeline).

In order to update the deployment pipeline, all you need to do is to update the **Jenkinsfile**
in the **inventory-wildfly-swarm** Git repository. OpenShift pipeline automatically executes the 
updated pipeline next time it runs.

You can see the pipeline logs by clicking on **View Log** and then logging into Jenkins using 
your OpenShift credentials and authorizing Jenkins to use your OpenShift credentials.

Commit message:

added workaround for pipeline stuck issue

scenarios/continuous-delivery/05-create-pipeline.md, after:

Like mentioned, [OpenShift Pipelines](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.6/architecture/core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.html#pipeline-build) enable creating deployment pipelines using the widely popular **Jenkinsfile** format.

Create a deployment pipeline by running the following command within 
the `inventory-widlfly-swarm` folder:

```
oc new-app . \
    --name=inventory-pipeline \
    --strategy=pipeline
```{{execute}}

The above command creates a new build config of type pipeline which is automatically 
configured to fetch the **Jenkinsfile** from the Git repository of the current folder 
(**inventory-wildfly-swarm** Git repository) and execute it on Jenkins. As soon as the 
pipeline is created, OpenShift auto-provisions a Jenkins server in your project, using 
the certified Jenkins image that is available in OpenShift image registry.

There is currently a bug in OpenShift 3.6 that prevents the pipeline from getting started 
when it's just created via command line. The issue is already resolved upstream. To get around 
this issue, restart the pipeline:

```
oc cancel-build bc/inventory-pipeline --restart
```{{execute}}

Click on *Dashboard* to go to the OpenShift Web Console. In the **coolstore** project, 
click on **Builds &rarr; Pipelines** from the left sidebar 

![OpenShift Pipeline](https://katacoda.com/openshift-roadshow/assets/cd-pipeline-inprogress.png)

Pipeline syntax allows creating complex deployment scenarios with the possibility of defining 
checkpoint for manual interaction and approval process using 
[the large set of steps and plugins that Jenkins provide](https://jenkins.io/doc/pipeline/steps/) in 
order to adapt the pipeline to the process used in your team. You can see a few examples of 
advanced pipelines in the 
[OpenShift GitHub Repository](https://github.com/openshift/origin/tree/master/examples/jenkins/pipeline).

In order to update the deployment pipeline, all you need to do is to update the **Jenkinsfile**
in the **inventory-wildfly-swarm** Git repository. OpenShift pipeline automatically executes the 
updated pipeline next time it runs.

You can see the pipeline logs by clicking on **View Log** and then logging into Jenkins using 
your OpenShift credentials and authorizing Jenkins to use your OpenShift credentials.
